New SD-JWT Encoding (#174)
oauth-wg/oauth-selective-disclosure-jwt: draft-ietf-oauth-selective-disclosure-jwt.md

# Concepts

In the following, the contents of SD-JWTs and Disclosures are described at a
conceptual level, abstracting from the data formats described afterwards.

## Creating an SD-JWT

An SD-JWT, at its core, is a digitally signed document containing digests over the claims (per claim: a random salt, the claim name and the claim value).
It MAY further contain clear-text claims that are always disclosed to the Verifier.
It MUST be digitally signed using the Issuer's private key.

```
SD-JWT-DOC = (METADATA, SD-CLAIMS, NON-SD-CLAIMS)
SD-JWT = SD-JWT-DOC | SIG(SD-JWT-DOC, ISSUER-PRIV-KEY)
```

`SD-CLAIMS` is an object with claim names (`CLAIM-NAME`) mapped to the digests over the claim values (`CLAIM-VALUE`) with random salts (`SALT`). Digests are calculated using a digest derivation function such as a hash function, HMAC, or other (`DIGEST-DERIVATION()`):

```
SD-CLAIMS = (

>     DIGEST-DERIVATION(SALT, CLAIM-NAME, CLAIM-VALUE)

Author: Let's do that in a separate PR.

`SD-JWT` is sent from the Issuer to the Holder, together with the mapping of the plain-text claim values, the salt values, and potentially some other information.

The Issuer further creates a set of Disclosures for all claims in the SD-JWT. The Disclosures are sent to the Holder together with the SD-JWT:

```
DISCLOSURES = (
    (SALT, CLAIM-NAME, CLAIM-VALUE)
)*
```

The SD-JWT and the Disclosures are sent to the Holder by the Issuer:

```

> COMBINED-ISSUANCE = (SD-JWT, DISCLOSURES)

Author: Correct!
```suggestion
COMBINED-ISSUANCE = SD-JWT | DISCLOSURES
```

```
SD-JWT-DOC = (METADATA, HOLDER-PUBLIC-KEY, SD-CLAIMS, NON-SD-CLAIMS)
```

Note: How the public key is included in SD-JWT is out of scope of this document. It can be passed by value or by reference.

The Holder can then create a signed document `HOLDER-BINDING-JWT` using its private key. This document contains some
data provided by the Verifier (out of scope of this document) to ensure the freshness of the signature, for example, a nonce and an indicator of the
intended audience for the document.

```
HOLDER-BINDING-JWT-DOC = (NONCE, AUDIENCE)
HOLDER-BINDING-JWT = HOLDER-BINDING-JWT-DOC |
    SIG(HOLDER-BINDING-JWT-DOC, HOLDER-PRIV-KEY)
```

The Holder Binding JWT is sent to the Verifier along with the SD-JWT and the Holder-Selected Disclosures.

```
COMBINED-PRESENTATION = SD-JWT | HOLDER-SELECTED-DISCLOSURES | HOLDER-BINDING-JWT
```

Note that there may be other ways to send the Holder Binding JWT to the Verifier or to prove Holder Binding. In these cases, inclusion of the Holder Binding JWT in the `COMBINED-PRESENTATION` is not required.

## Verifying Holder-Selected Disclosures

> On a high level, the Verifier

Author: Good point, it should be mentioned.

 * receives the `COMBINED-PRESENTATION` from the Holder and verifies the signature of the SD-JWT using the Issuer's public key,
 * verifies the Holder Binding JWT, if Holder Binding is required, using the public key included in the SD-JWT,

>  * calculates the digests over the Holder-Selected Disclosures and verifies that each digest is contained in the SD-JWT.

Author: What is calculated is still a hash digest, so
```suggestion
 * calculates the hash digests over the Holder-Selected Disclosures and verifies that each digest is contained in the SD-JWT.
```

The detailed algorithm is described in (#verifier_verification).

# Data Formats

This section defines data formats for SD-JWTs, Disclosures, Holder Binding JWTs and formats for combining these elements for transport.

> ## The Challenge of Canonicalization {#canonicalization}

Author: Agree!

> ## The Challenge of Canonicalization {#canonicalization}

Reviewer: Issuer #175

   canonical form before computing a digest. Both the Issuer and the Verifier
   must use the same canonicalization algorithm to arrive at the same byte
   string for computing a digest.

> 2. Source string hardening: Instead of transferring data in a format that

Author: I think it is. It was also used at IETF. But I'm open for other suggestions.

> 2. Source string hardening: Instead of transferring data in a format that

Reviewer: Issue #176

undetected inconsistencies resulting in time-of-check-time-of-use type security
vulnerabilities.

In this specification, the source string hardening approach is used, as
it allows for simple and reliable interoperability without the
requirement for a canonicalization library. To harden the source string,
any serialization format that supports the necessary data types could
be used in theory, like protobuf, msgpack, or pickle. In this
specification, JSON is used and the JSON document is encoded using base64url-encoding
for transport. This approach means that SD-JWTs can be implemented purely based
on widely available JWT, JSON, and Base64 encoding and decoding libraries.

A Verifier can then easily check the digest over the source string before
extracting the original JSON data. Variations in the encoding of the source
string are implicitly tolerated by the Verifier, as the digest is computed over a
predefined byte string and not over a JSON object.

It is important to note that the Disclosures are neither intended nor
suitable for direct consumption by

> an application that needs to access the disclosed claim values. The

Author: Verifier (in a stricter sense than defined above): The component implementing SD-JWT. Application: Whatever component works with the data checked by the verifier.

> an application that needs to access the disclosed claim values. The

Reviewer: makes sense - clarified.

> an application that needs to access the disclosed claim values. The

Reviewer: ```suggestion
an application that needs to access the disclosed claim values after the verification by the Verifier. The
```

Disclosures are only intended to be used by a Verifier to check
the digests over the source strings and to extract the original JSON
data. The original JSON data is then used by the application. See
(#verifier_verification) for details.

## Format of an SD-JWT

An SD-JWT is a JWT that MUST be signed using the Issuer's private key. The
payload of an SD-JWT MUST contain the `sd_digest_derivation_alg` claim
described in the following, MAY contain one or more selectively disclosable claims, and MAY contain a Holder's public key or a reference
thereto, as well as further claims such as `iss`, `iat`, etc. as defined or
required by the application using SD-JWTs.

### Selectively Disclosable Claims

> For each claim that is to be selectively disclosed, the Issuer creates a Disclosure object, hashes it, and includes the hash instead of the original claim in the SD-JWT, as described next. The Disclosures are then sent to the Holder.

Author: Agree, but we still need to introduce the Disclosure term here.

> For each claim that is to be selectively disclosed, the Issuer creates a Disclosure object, hashes it, and includes the hash instead of the original claim in the SD-JWT, as described next. The Disclosures are then sent to the Holder.

Reviewer: changed disclosure object to disclosure, should be clear enough.

#### Creating Disclosures {#creating_disclosures}
The Issuer MUST create a Disclosure object for each selectively disclosable claim as follows:

>  * Create an array of three elements in this order:

Reviewer: I would emphasize the order in other places too...

just curious, any logic for the order?

Author: At which other places? 

I don't have a strong opinion on the order, but my logic is that the value should come last, as it can be a large object. So having the salt (constant length) and claim name (roughly same length all the time) first makes it easier to read the disclosures, should that be necessary.

   1. A salt value. See (#salt-entropy) and (#salt_minlength) for security considerations. The salt value MUST be unique for each claim that is to be selectively disclosed. It is RECOMMENDED to base64url-encode the salt value, producing a string. Any other type that is allowed in JSON MAY be used, e.g., a number.

>    2. The claim name, or key, as it would be used in a regular JWT. This MUST be a string.

Author: I just want to say that it is used just as in a Non-SD JWT (no transformation or the likes).

>    3. The claim's value, as it would be used in a regular JWT. The value MAY be of any type that is allowed in JSON, including numbers, strings, booleans, arrays, and objects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   3. The claim's value, as it would be used in a regular JWT body. The value MAY be of any type that is allowed in JSON, including numbers, strings, booleans, arrays, and objects.
```

 * JSON-encode the array such that an UTF-8 string is produced.
 * base64url-encode the byte representation of the UTF-8 string, producing a US-ASCII [@RFC0020] string. This string is the Disclosure.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The order is decided based on the readability considerations: salts would have a constant length within the SD-JWT, claim names would be around the same length all the time, and claim values would vary in size, potentially being large objects.
```

The following example illustrates the steps described above.

The array is created as follows:
```json
["6qMQvRL5haj", "family_name", "Möbius"]
```

The resulting Disclosure would be `WyI2cU1RdlJMNWhhaiIsICJmYW1pbHlfbmFtZSIsICJNw7ZiaXVzIl0`.

Note that the JSON encoding of the object is not canonicalized, so variations in white space, encoding
of Unicode characters, and ordering of object properties are allowed. For example, the following strings
are all valid and encode the same claim value:

>  * A different way to encode the umlaut: `WyI2cU1RdlJMNWhhaiIsICJmYW1pbHlfbmFtZSIsICJNXHUwMGY2Yml1cyJd`

Reviewer: (I did not know the term umlaut...)

Author: We can replace it with "letter with crazy german-looking dots on top"? ;-)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * A different way to encode the umlaut (two dots `¨` placed over the letter): `WyI2cU1RdlJMNWhhaiIsICJmYW1pbHlfbmFtZSIsICJNXHUwMGY2Yml1cyJd`
```

 * No white space: `WyI2cU1RdlJMNWhhaiIsImZhbWlseV9uYW1lIiwiTcO2Yml1cyJd`
 * Newline characters between elements: `WwoiNnFNUXZSTDVoYWoiLAoiZmFtaWx5X25hbWUiLAoiTcO2Yml1cyIKXQ`

#### Hashing Disclosures {#hashing_disclosures}

For embedding the Disclosures in the SD-JWT, the Disclosures are hashed using the digest algorithm specified in the `sd_digest_derivation_alg` claim described below. The resulting hash is then included in the SD-JWT instead of the original claim value, as described next.

The hash digest MUST be taken over the US-ASCII bytes of the base64url-encoded Disclosure. This follows the convention in JWS [@RFC7515] and JWE [@RFC7516]. The bytes of the hash digest MUST then be base64url-encoded.

Note:

 * The input to the hash function is the base64url-encoded Disclosure, not the bytes encoded by the base64url string.
 * The bytes of the output of the hash function are base64url-encoded, not the bytes making up the (often used) hex representation of the bytes of the hash digest.

For example, the
SHA-256 hash digest of the Disclosure `WyI2cU1RdlJMNWhhaiIsICJmYW1pbHlfbmFtZSIsICJNw7ZiaXVzIl0` would be
`uutlBuYeMDyjLLTpf6Jxi7yNkEF35jdyWMn9U7b_RYY`.

> #### Decoy Digests {#decoy_digests}

Reviewer: I was also not familiar with a term decoy..

Author: It's a bit of a military term, but I hope it captures the spirit just fine.

An Issuer MAY add additional hash digests to the SD-JWT that are not associated with any claim.  The purpose of such "decoy" digests is to make it more difficult for an attacker to see the original number of claims contained in the SD-JWT. It is RECOMMENDED to create the decoy digests by hashing over a cryptographically secure random number. The bytes of the hash digest MUST then be base64url-encoded as above. The same digest function as for the Disclosures MUST be used.

For decoy digests, no Disclosure is sent to the Holder, i.e., the Holder will see hash digests that do not correspond to any Disclosure. See (#decoy_digests_privacy) for additional privacy considerations.

To ensure readability and replicability, the examples in this specification do not contain decoy digests unless explicitly stated.

#### Creating an SD-JWT {#creating_sd_jwt}

An SD-JWT is a JWT that MUST be signed using the Issuer's private key.

An SD-JWT MAY contain both selectively disclosable claims and non-selectively disclosable claims, i.e., claims that are always contained in the SD-JWT in plaintext and are always visible to a Verifier.

> Claims controlling the validity of the SD-JWT, such as `iss`, `exp`, or `nbf` are usually included in plaintext. End-User claims MAY be included as plaintext as well, e.g., if hiding the particular claims from the Verifier does not make sense in the intended use case. Ultimately, an Issuer decides which claims are selectively disclosable and which are not.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is an Issuer who decides which claims are selectively disclosable and which are not. However, claims controlling the validity of the SD-JWT, such as `iss`, `exp`, or `nbf` are usually included in plaintext. End-User claims MAY be included as plaintext as well, e.g., if hiding the particular claims from the Verifier does not make sense in the intended use case.
```

Author: ```suggestion
It is the Issuer who decides which claims are selectively disclosable and which are not. However, claims controlling the validity of the SD-JWT, such as `iss`, `exp`, or `nbf` are usually included in plaintext. End-User claims MAY be included as plaintext as well, e.g., if hiding the particular claims from the Verifier does not make sense in the intended use case.
```

> Plaintext claims are included in the SD-JWT just as they would be in any other JWT.

Author: ```suggestion
Claims that are not selectively disclosable are included in the SD-JWT in plaintext just as they would be in any other JWT.
```

> Selectively disclosable claims are omitted from the SD-JWT. Instead, the hash digests of the respective Disclosures and potentially decoy digests are contained as an array in a new claim, `_sd`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Selectively disclosable claims are omitted from the SD-JWT. Instead, the hash digests of the respective Disclosures and potentially decoy digests are contained as an array in a new JWT claim, `_sd`.
```

> The `_sd` claim MUST be an array of strings, each string being a hash digests of a Disclosure or a decoy digest as described above.

Reviewer: definition of `_sd` claim can probably be defined clearer, but we can do it in another PR :)

> The array MAY be empty, although it is RECOMMENDED to omit the claim in this case to save space.

Reviewer: when can an array be empty..?

Author: Depending on the implementation of the Issuer, it might be convenient to just add `_sd` everywhere and leave it empty when it turns out that there's nothing to selectively disclose.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The array MAY be empty in case the Issuer decided not to selectively disclose any of the claims at that level. However, it is RECOMMENDED to omit `_sd` claim in this case to save space.
```

> The Issuer MUST hide the original order of the claims in the array. To ensure this, it is RECOMMENDED to shuffle the array, e.g., by sorting it alphanumerically or randomly. The precise method does not matter as long as it does not depend on the original order of elements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Issuer MUST hide the original order of the claims in the array. To ensure this, it is RECOMMENDED to shuffle the array of hashes, e.g., by sorting it alphanumerically or randomly. The precise method does not matter as long as it does not depend on the original order of elements.
```

we should probably be precise since each disclosure also hashes over an array

Author: Good point!

Issuers MUST NOT issue SD-JWTs where

>  * the key `_sd` is used for any other purpose than to contain the array of hash digests, or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * the key `_sd` is already used for the purpose other to contain the array of hash digests, or
```

Author: What is the intention here?

Reviewer: just to clarify

>  * the key `_sd` is itself used inside a claim value (when the claim value is an object), or

Reviewer: why is this not ok..?

Author: It's a bit of an undefined area currently how to treat this situation. Should the Verifier handle nested _sd claims like normal ones or ignore them?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * plaintext claim value is an object that contains the `_sd` claim array, or
```

>  * the same Disclosure appears more than once (in the same array or in different arrays).

Reviewer: when would this be the case? same claim value? same salt? I though we are recommending against this?

Author: Since the same salt should not happen, it might be an error of the Issuer or intentional misbehavior. It is ruled out here and enforced by the Verifier.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * the same Disclosure value appears more than once (in the same array or in different arrays).
```

> #### Nested Data in SD-JWTs {#nested_data}

Reviewer: why not "structured data" for consistency with the rest of the examples, etc?

Author: I'm actually not sure if 'structured' is the best term. Nested is potentially more clear.

Reviewer: + 1 to nested. #177

> Just like any JWT, an SD-JWT MAY contain objects that themselves contain other data. For any object in an SD-JWT, the Issuer MAY decide to either make the entire object selectively disclosable or to make its properties selectively disclosable individually. In the latter case, the Issuer MAY even choose to make some some of the object's properties selectively disclosable and others not.

Reviewer: `objects that themselves contain other data` -> something like `key value pairs where the value is an object` or `where the claim value is expressed as an object` might be clearer, no?

Author: Agree.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Just like any JWT, an SD-JWT MAY contain key value pairs where the value is an object. For any object in an SD-JWT, the Issuer MAY decide to either make the entire object selectively disclosable or to make its properties selectively disclosable individually. In the latter case, the Issuer MAY even choose to make some some of the object's properties selectively disclosable and others not.
```

The Issuer creates the following Disclosures:

{{examples/simple/disclosures.md}}

## Combined Format for Issuance

Besides the SD-JWT itself, the Holder needs to learn the raw claim values that
are contained in the SD-JWT, along with the precise input to the digest
calculation and the salts. To this end, the Issuer sends the Disclosure objects
that were also used for the hash calculation, as described in (#creating_disclosures),
to the Holder.

The data format for sending the SD-JWT and the Disclosures to the Holder is
as follows:

```
<SD-JWT>~<Disclosure 1>~<Disclosure 2>~...~<Disclosure N>
```
This is called the Combined Format for Issuance.

The Disclosures and SD-JWT are implicitly linked through the
digest values of the Disclosures included in the SD-JWT.

### Example

For Example 1, the Combined Format for Issuance looks as follows:

<{{examples/simple/combined_issuance.txt}}

(Line breaks for presentation only.)

## Combined Format for Presentation

For presentation to a Verifier, the Holder sends the SD-JWT and a selected
subset of the Disclosures to the Verifier.

The data format for sending the SD-JWT and the Disclosures to the Verifier is

> as follows (line break added for readability):

Reviewer: I think we should explicitly call out Disclosures are individually sent, separated by tildas? this feels missing and I think it should come much earlier in the spec.

Author: This is first described in the Combined Format for Issuance.

Reviewer: add a text somewhere above saying that how to send will be described later in the text (ie in this section)

Reviewer: #178

based on the set of trust requirements such as trust frameworks it belongs to.

Other ways of proving Holder Binding are possible, e.g., when the Combined Format
for Presentation is itself embedded in a signed JWT.

If no Holder Binding JWT is included, the Combined Format for Presentation ends with
the `~` character after the last Disclosure.

### Example

The following is a non-normative example of the contents of a Presentation for Example 1, disclosing
the claims `given_name`, `family_name`, and `address`, as it would be sent from the Holder to the Verifier. The Holder Binding JWT as shown before is included as the last element.

<{{examples/simple/combined_presentation.txt}}

# Verification and Processing

## Processing by the Holder  {#holder_verification}

The Holder MUST perform the following (or equivalent) steps when receiving
a Combined Format for Issuance:

 1. Separate the SD-JWT and the Disclosures in the Combined Format for Issuance.
 2. Hash all of the Disclosures separately.
 3. Find the places in the SD-JWT where the digests of the Disclosures are
    included. If any of the digests cannot be found in the SD-JWT, the

>     Holder MUST reject the SD-JWT.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Holder MUST reject the SD-JWT.
 4. Decode Disclosures and obtain plaintext of the claim values.
```
I think this should be made explicit?

For presentation to a Verifier, the Holder MUST perform the following (or equivalent) steps:

 1. Decide which Disclosures to release to the Verifier, obtaining proper End-User consent if necessary.
 2. If Holder Binding is required, create a Holder Binding JWT.
 3. Create the Combined Format for Presentation, including the selected Disclosures and, if applicable, the Holder Binding JWT.

>  4. Send the Presentation to the Verifier.

Reviewer: maybe add a note that it is up to the holder how to maintain the mapping between the plaintext claim values and disclosures

Reviewer: line in 652

## Verification by the Verifier  {#verifier_verification}

Upon receiving a Presentation, Verifiers MUST ensure that

 * the SD-JWT is valid, i.e., it is signed by the Issuer and the signature is valid,
 * all Disclosures are correct, i.e., their digests are referenced in the SD-JWT, and
 * if Holder Binding is required, the Holder Binding JWT is signed by the Holder and valid.

To this end, Verifiers MUST follow the following steps (or equivalent):

 1. Determine if Holder Binding is to be checked according to the Verifier's policy
    for the use case at hand. This decision MUST NOT be based on whether
    a Holder Binding JWT is provided by the Holder or not. Refer to (#holder_binding_security) for
    details.
 2. Separate the Presentation into the SD-JWT, the Disclosures (if any), and the Holder Binding JWT (if provided).
 3. Validate the SD-JWT:
    1. Ensure that a signing algorithm was used that was deemed secure for the application. Refer to [@RFC8725], Sections 3.1 and 3.2 for details. The `none` algorithm MUST NOT be accepted.
    2. Validate the signature over the SD-JWT.
    3. Validate the Issuer of the SD-JWT and that the signing key belongs to this Issuer.

>     4. Check that the SD-JWT is valid using `nbf`, `iat`, and `exp` claims, if provided in the SD-JWT.

Reviewer: if these claims are selectively disclosed, would not be in this step, but don't know how relevant that is..

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    4. Check that the SD-JWT is valid using `nbf`, `iat`, and `exp` claims, if provided in the SD-JWT, and not selectively disclosed.
```

    5. Check that the `sd_digest_derivation_alg` claim is present and its value is understood and the digest derivation algorithm is deemed secure.

>  4. Create a copy of the SD-JWT payload for further processing, if required.

Reviewer: why?

Author: I wasn't sure if we need to make this explicit, but the next steps are most easily described by saying how the JWT needs to be "modified". If we don't say that you can do this on a copy, people might complain when they have the JWT in a data structure that cannot be modified.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 4. Create a copy of the SD-JWT payload, if required for further processing.
```

 5. Process the Disclosures. For each Disclosure provided:
    1. Calculate the hash digest over the base64url string as described in (#hashing_disclosures).

>     2. Find any `_sd` keys in the SD-JWT payload where the digest of the Disclosure is included in the array.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    2. Find `_sd` key in the SD-JWT payload that contains a hash calculated in the previous step. Note that there might be more than one `_sd` arrays in on SD-JWT.
```

       1. If the digest cannot be found in the SD-JWT payload, the Verifier MUST reject the Presentation.
       2. If there is more than one place where the digest is included, the Verifier MUST reject the Presentation.
       3. If there is a key `_sd` that does not refer to an array, the Verifier MUST reject the Presentation.
       4. Otherwise, insert, at the level of the `_sd` claim, the claim described by the Disclosure with the claim name and claim value provided in the Disclosure.
          1. If the Disclosure is not a JSON-encoded array of three elements, the Verifier MUST reject the Presentation.

>           2. If the claim name already exists, the Verifier MUST reject the Presentation. Note that this also means that if a Holder sends the same Disclosure multiple times, the Verifier MUST reject the Presentation.

Author: It can, but it must not already exist at the same level. Note that in this version of the draft there's no merging defined (as it is not strictly needed).

>           2. If the claim name already exists, the Verifier MUST reject the Presentation. Note that this also means that if a Holder sends the same Disclosure multiple times, the Verifier MUST reject the Presentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          2. If the claim name already exists at the same level, the Verifier MUST reject the Presentation. Note that this also means that if a Holder sends the same Disclosure multiple times, the Verifier MUST reject the Presentation.
```

>           3. If the claim value is an object and contains an `_sd` key, the Verifier MUST reject the Presentation.

Reviewer: I am confused..

Author: As above - prevents an undefined situation. Note that this refers to the disclosed claim value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          3. If the claim value is an object and contains an `_sd` key with an array, the Verifier MUST reject the Presentation.
```

>     3. Remove all `_sd` claims from the SD-JWT payload.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    3. Remove all `_sd` claims from the SD-JWT payload by repeating the above process.
```

>     4. Remove the claim `sd_digest_derivation_alg` from the SD-JWT payload.

Reviewer: why?

Author: Should not be a concern of the consuming application.

 6. If Holder Binding is required:
    1. If Holder Binding is provided by means not defined in this specification, verify the Holder Binding according to the method used.
    2. Otherwise, verify the Holder Binding JWT as follows:
       1. If not Holder Binding JWT is provided, the Verifier MUST reject the Presentation.

>        2. Determine the public key for the Holder from the Holder Binding JWT.

Reviewer: A step that the public key signing the Holder Binding JWT must be included in the SD-JWT signed by the Issuer needs ot be added.

Other ways of proving Holder Binding are possible, e.g., when the Combined Format
for Presentation is itself embedded in a signed JWT.

If no Holder Binding JWT is included, the Combined Format for Presentation ends with
the `~` character after the last Disclosure.

### Example

The following is a non-normative example of the contents of a Presentation for Example 1, disclosing
the claims `given_name`, `family_name`, and `address`, as it would be sent from the Holder to the Verifier. The Holder Binding JWT as shown before is included as the last element.

<{{examples/simple/combined_presentation.txt}}

# Verification and Processing

## Processing by the Holder  {#holder_verification}

The Holder MUST perform the following (or equivalent) steps when receiving
a Combined Format for Issuance:

 1. Separate the SD-JWT and the Disclosures in the Combined Format for Issuance.
 2. Hash all of the Disclosures separately.
 3. Find the places in the SD-JWT where the digests of the Disclosures are
    included. If any of the digests cannot be found in the SD-JWT, the
    Holder MUST reject the SD-JWT.
 4. Decode Disclosures and obtain plaintext of the claim values.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

It is up to the Holder how to maintain the mapping between the Disclosures and the plaintext claim values to be able to display them to the End-User when needed.

```

can be misinterpreted. For this reason, when deciding whether Holder
binding is required or not, Verifiers MUST NOT take into account

 * whether an Holder Binding JWT is present or not, as an attacker can
   remove the Holder Binding JWT from any Presentation and present it to the
   Verifier, or
 * whether a key reference is present in the SD-JWT or not, as the
   Issuer might have added the key to the SD-JWT in a format/claim that
   is not recognized by the Verifier.

If a Verifier has decided that Holder Binding is required for a
particular use case and the Holder Binding is not present, does not fulfill the requirements
(e.g., on the signing algorithm), or no recognized
key reference is present in the SD-JWT, the Verifier will reject the
presentation, as described in (#verifier_verification).

## Blinding Claim Names {#blinding-claim-names}

SD-JWT ensures that names of claims that are selectively disclosable are

> blinded. This prevents an attacker from learning the names of the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
always blinded. This prevents an attacker from learning the names of the
```
